---
layout: distill
published: false
title:  TODO
date:   2024-01-13
description: TODO
tags: meaning, 
categories: philosophy
comments: true # looks disgusting right now, need to fix this too...

authors:
  - name: Saaketh Medepalli
    affiliations: 
      name: Machine Learning Department, Carnegie Mellon University
---


On flight from Lisbon to Chicago, suddenly struck by what I should be doing in that moment on the flight. Delving into incredibly deep questions:

When to work, when to relax, etc? Otherwise I get stressed that I'm not doing anything "productive" while I could be.

This extends beyond flights - how does one decide to do anything? There seems to be an aversion to some and not to others, but I think a lot of this is based on habits and what is easy to do...

Do values play a role here? When is the right time to ever engage in a break or relax (alternative is Vishwa, which is horribly toxic)? Ultimately the answer seems to come down to when I intend to do it or feel like it...

Ultimately, what is the whole point of a vacation? I'm already on it - it's to take a step back and relax, **not worrying about professional obligations** (e.g., which is where admissions were a problem). I should give ultimate flexibility to any outside obligations while on vacation, from start to finish.

**the goal should be to enjoy what I'm doing intentionally** and be more ZEN in life 
* I might reactively do something and force myself to do it, and though I might do it, I'll learn to slowly hate it and my brain will learn that it takes a lot of effort to do it
* *Investigate this* - is pushing myself hard to do something a good idea to get better at it, even when it's inconvenient and I don't want to do it?
* huge upside of trying to solve such dilemmas via AI (perhaps it already does with memory?)